1.  . ........is  an  agricultural feast that marks the completion of wheat harvest for which the Jews gave thanks and praise to God. A) wheat  festival  

B) pentecost       C) end of harvest  

2. Before Jesus ascended into heaven, he promised to send down the........... 

A) holy spirit B) rain C) fire 

3. The Holy spirit will make the disciples do the following except......... 

A)perform magic B) heal the sick C) preach the gospel  

4. After Jesus had risen and ascended to heaven, the disciples gathered in the.......A) mountain B) upper room C) church  

5. According to the Bible, those who worship God must worship him in.........  

A) spirit B)church C) Both 

6. For us to serve God and expect him to guide our path and comfort us, we  must ask his spirit to live in ...........A) our home B) us C) head 

7. Those who has the spirit of God, lives a life without any........... A) reserve B) remorse C) sin 

8. The Holy spirit is the ............person of the trinity A) First B) second C) third 

9. Our boldness to preach Christ to others, is a way through which people can see the spirit of God in us. A) true B) false  C) all of the above  

10. The Holy Spirit is not capable of doing wonders A) true B) false C) sure 

11. Peter and........ surrendered all they were going to do to the Lord in prayers. 

A) Jude B) John C) James 

12. All the people  Peter and his partner approached embraced the word of God because they were ............A) eloquent B) guided by the spirit C) two 

13. The holy spirit  spoke to Philip to go to..........road  A) desert B) river C) Church  

14. Philip met official..........reading Isaiah. A) Ethiopian B) European C) Naval 

15. The holy spirit told Philip to  .......... 

A) pray B) go to the church C) move near the chariot  

16. ........is not the role of the holy spirit A) teaches us all things B)comfort us C) none of the above  

17. The holy spirit help the disciples of Jesus Christ to be faithful to their ........ 

A) God B) friends C) wives  

18. When the disciples received the holy spirit on the pentecost day, they were ..........A)tired and weak B)bold and strong   C) Not ready for it 

19. The holy spirit guide us to use our talent properly A) true B) false  C) sometimes  

20. When the disciples received the holy spirit and was speaking in tongues, the Jews thought they were........... A) insane B) Jews C) drunk  

21......... is the role of the Holy Spirit in our lives? 

A) To punish us for our sins B) To guide us to the truth C) To make us rich and famous 

22.Who sent the Holy Spirit to guide us? 

A) God the Father B) Jesus Christ C) The angels 

 

23. What  truth did the Holy Spirit guides us ? 

 A) The truth about our favorite foods  

B) The truth about God's love for us  

C) The truth about our favorite games 

24.How does the Holy Spirit guide us to the truth? A) Through our brains emotions   B) Through the Bible and prayer C) Through our neighbours and workers  

25..........is the result of being guided by the Holy Spirit? 

A) We become more selfish and proud 

B) We become more humble and obedient 

C) We become more angry and bitter 

26.Who can receive the guidance of the Holy Spirit? 

A) Only adults B) Only Christians    C) All people who ask and believe 

27. What do we need to do to receive the guidance of the Holy Spirit? 

A) We need to powerful and strong  

B) We need to ask and believe in faith 

C) We need to work hard and earn it 

28. How can we know if the Holy Spirit is guiding us? 

A) Through a loud and audible voice 

B) Through a gentle and quiet whisper 

C) Through a clean and running water  

29.What is the relationship between the Holy Spirit and Jesus Christ? 

A) The Holy Spirit is greater than Jesus  B) The Holy Spirit is equal to Jesus 

C) The Holy Spirit is the Spirit of God 

30. Why do we need the guidance of the Holy Spirit? 

A) Because we are already perfect and don't need help 

B) Because we are weak and need God's strength 

C) Because we are smart and just need a little nudge 

31. Can the Holy Spirit guide us in our decisions? 

A) Yes B) No C) Maybe 

32.How can we know God's will for our lives? 

A) Through the guidance of the Holy Spirit 

B) Through our own feelings and desires 

C) Through the advice of our friends and family 

33......... is  the role of faith in receiving the guidance of the Holy Spirit? 

A) We need to have perfect faith to receive guidance 

B) We need to have a little faith to receive guidance 

C) Faith is not necessary to receive guidance 

34. Can the Holy Spirit guide us in our relationships with others? 

A) Yes B) No C) Yes and No 

35. We can resist the guidance of the Holy Spirit .......... 

A) By ignoring God's voice and following our own desires 

B) By praying and asking for guidance 

C) By reading the Bible and seeking wisdom 

36. ..........is the consequence of not following the guidance of the Holy Spirit? 

A)We will be punished by God      B)We will be rewarded by God 

C) We will miss out on God's Plans for our lives 

37.  When we are filled with the Holy Spirit, it shows in _______ 

a)  all areas of our lives   b)  our church activities   b)  the ways we relate to our pastors  

38.  People will see God in us through our _______ 

a)  honesty       b)   loyalty    c)  disobedience  

39.  The Holy Spirit helped the disciples of Jesus Christ to be ________ 

a)  faithful to God     b)  faithful to men      c)  unfaithful to God  

40.  ________ is not a reward for working in the Holy Spirit 

a)  Blessings    b)  Mercy     c)  unfaithfulness   

 

SECTION B: 

Answer all the questions. 

1.  Explain what Pentecost means. 

2.  Describe the events of the day of Pentecost 

3.  List three spiritual significance of the Pentecost. 

4. State four influences of the Holy Spirit in our daily lives. 

5.  Mention three roles of the Holy Spirit in our lives. 

