 

 

CULTURAL AND CREATIVE ARTS 

1. Which instrument is played by blowing air through a mouthpiece? a) Drum b) Trumpet 

c) Violin 

2. What kind of instrument is a piano? a) String instrument b) Percussion instrument 

c) Keyboard instrument 

3. Which of these is a string instrument? a) Flute b) Guitar 

c) Trumpet 

4. What do you use to play a violin? a) A bow b) A stick 

c) Your hands 

5. Which instrument is played by striking keys with fingers? a) Flute b) Piano 

c) Trombone 

6. Which of these instruments is part of the brass family? a) Saxophone b) Trombone 

c) Violin 

7. What is the largest instrument in the string family? a) Harp b) Cello 

c) Double bass 

8. Which instrument is often used to keep the rhythm in a band? a) Drums b) Flute 

c) Trumpet 

9. Which of these instruments is a wind instrument? a) Clarinet b) Guitar 

c) Trumpet 

10. Which instrument has black and white keys? a) Violin b) Piano c.Keyboard 

11. What is the main role of an actor? a) Write scripts 

b) Perform in plays 

c) Build sets 

 

12. What do you call the place where plays are performed? a) Museum b) Theatre 

c) School 

13. What is the name of the person who writes the script for a play? a) Director b) Producer 

c) Playwright 

14. In a play, what do you call the person who helps actors perform their roles? a) Musician b) Director 

c) Designer 

15. What do you call a dramatic performance where the actors do not speak, only act out the story? a) Musical b) Pantomime c) Comedy 

16. Which of these is a costume accessory an actor might wear for a play? a) Sunglasses b) Helmet 

c) Hat 

17. What do you call the words an actor says in a play? a) Lines b) Music 

c) Notes 

18. Which of these is an example of a famous play? a) The Lion King b) Hamlet 

c) Frozen 

19. Which of these is an element of drama? a) Plot  b) Weather c) Painting 

20. What do you call the main story of a play? a) Script b) Plot c) Costume 

 

21. What is a character in a story or play? 

 

a) The place where the story happens 

b) A person or animal in the story 

c) The event that happens in the story 

 

22. Which of these is a type of character in a play? 

 

a) Protagonist 

b) Stage 

c) Director 

 

23. Who is the main character in a story or play? 

 

a) The villain 

b) The protagonist 

c) The background character 

 

24. What does a villain do in a story or play? 

 

a) Helps the hero 

b) Creates problems for the hero 

c) Directs the play 

 

25. Who is an actor? 

 

a) A person who writes a play 

b) A person who performs on stage or in movies 

c) A person who designs costumes 

 

26. What is play acting? 

 

a) Acting out a story or a scene 

b) Drawing pictures 

c) Reading books silently 

 

27. What does an actor do when performing? 

 

a) Tells jokes to the audience 

b) Pretends to be a character and speaks lines 

c) Watches other actors 

 

28. What is the purpose of body movement in acting? 

 

a) To distract the audience 

b) To help tell the story and show emotions 

c) To make people laugh 

 

29. Which of the following is a type of body movement in acting? 

 

a) Jumping, running, and dancing 

b) Sitting still and looking at the audience 

c) Drawing on paper 

 

30. What is dance? 

 

a) Moving to music using different body movements 

b) A kind of art made with colors 

c) A type of acting on stage 

 

31. What do dancers use to express emotions in dance? 

 

a) Their voice 

b) Their body movements 

c) Their words 

 

32. What is a dramatic character? 

 

a) A character who is fun and playful 

b) A character who acts in a serious or emotional way 

c) A character who sings in a play 

 

33. What is the role of a supporting character? 

 

a) To be the main focus of the story 

b) To help tell the story and support the main character 

c) To stay quiet and not speak 

 

34. What is improvisation in acting? 

 

a) Acting without a script, making up lines on the spot 

b) Following the script exactly as written 

c) Dancing to music 

 

35. What kind of character is a hero? 

 

a) A character who is good and solves problems 

b) A character who is bad and causes trouble 

c) A character who does not speak 

 

36. What is an emotion that an actor might show through body movement? 

 

a) Happiness, sadness, or anger 

b) Excitement for food 

c) Sleeping 

 

37. What do actors wear to help them become their characters? 

 

a) Costumes 

b) Casual clothes 

c) Jeans and t-shirts 

 

38. Why is body language important in acting? 

 

a) It helps actors show feelings and actions without words 

b) It makes actors look taller 

c) It makes actors move faster 

 

39. What is the first step in learning to dance? 

 

a) Listening to the music 

b) Buying special shoes 

c) Watching a movie 

 

40. What kind of dance can be performed with music in a play? 

 

a) Ballet 

b) Hip-hop 

c) Both ballet and hip-hop 

FILL IN THE BLANKS  

1. In a _______ performance, actors pretend to be characters and act out a story. 

2. _______ is a form of art where people move their bodies to music to tell a story or express emotions. 

3. In a _______ dance, people often wear costumes and perform to tell a traditional story or celebrate an event. 

4. A _______ is a person who performs in plays or shows and acts out different roles. 

5. _______ is when a dancer moves in a way that matches the beat or rhythm of the music. 

 

 

 

 

 

PHYSICAL AND HEALTH EDUCATION 

 

1. What should you do to stop the spread of germs? a) Wash your hands b) Eat candy c) Stay outside 

2. What does a healthy community need? a) Healthy people b) A lot of candy c) Trash everywhere 

3. Which of these is important for staying healthy? a) Drinking lots of soda b) Eating fruits and vegetables c) Sleeping all day 

4. What is the best way to stop the spread of illness in a community? a) Sharing food with everyone b) Washing hands regularly c) Not drinking water 

5. What should you do if you feel sick? a) Go to school and play b) Stay home and rest c) Go to a friend's house 

6. Why is it important to get vaccinations? a) To protect yourself from diseases b) To grow taller c) To make your clothes look good 

7. What can you do to help your community stay clean? a) Litter in the streets b) Pick up trash c) Ignore the trash 

8. What is the main reason for keeping your environment clean? a) To make the place look nice b) To prevent diseases c) To annoy people 

9. Why should we avoid smoking in our community? a) It smells bad b) It can harm people's health 

c) It makes us look cool 

10. What is a good way to stay healthy in your community? a) Exercise and play outside b) Stay inside all day c) Eat fast food all the time 

11. What should you do to help reduce pollution? a) Recycle bottles and cans b) Burn plastic c) Leave trash on the ground 

12. Why is it important to plant trees? a) To make oxygen and clean the air b) To have more places to sit 

c) To make the grass grow 

13. What should you do with plastic bottles after you use them? a) Throw them in the trash b) Recycle them c) Leave them outside 

14. What does pollution do to the environment? a) Makes the air and water dirty b) Makes flowers bloom c) Helps animals grow 

15. Which of these helps keep our environment clean? a) Turning off lights when you leave a room b) Using more plastic bags c) Throwing trash in rivers 

16. What can you do to save water? a) Leave the water running while brushing your teeth b) Take long showers c) Turn off the water when brushing your teeth 

17. Why should we avoid using too many plastic bags? a) They can harm animals and the environment b) They are expensive c) They help plants grow 

18. What is an example of recycling? a) Using a paper bag instead of a plastic one b) Throwing bottles in the trash c) Burning cardboard 

19. What can you do to reduce air pollution? a) Walk or ride a bike instead of driving a car b) Leave the car running all day c) Use more air conditioners 

20. What is one way to take care of the earth? a) Plant more trees b) Cut down all the trees c) Leave trash everywhere 

21. Why is food important for our body? 

 

a) It helps us grow and gives us energy 

b) It makes us taller 

c) It helps us sleep better 

 

22. What does a healthy diet help our body do? 

 

a) Run faster 

b) Stay strong and healthy 

c) Grow taller 

 

23. Which of the following is a healthy food choice? 

 

a) Candy 

b) Fruits and vegetables 

c) Chips 

 

24. What do carbohydrates in food do for our body? 

 

a) Help us sleep 

b) Provide energy 

c) Help us see better 

 

25. Which of the following is a good source of protein? 

 

a) Apples 

b) Chicken 

c) Chocolate 

 

26. Why should we drink water every day? 

 

a) To keep our body hydrated and healthy 

b) To feel tired 

c) To taste something sweet 

 

27. What is one of the benefits of eating fruits and vegetables? 

 

a) They are high in sugar 

b) They help keep our skin healthy 

c) They make us feel sleepy 

 

28. Which food is a good source of vitamins? 

 

a) Candy 

b) Fruits and vegetables 

c) Ice cream 

 

29. What is an example of a physical activity that helps us stay fit? 

 

a) Watching TV 

b) Playing sports or running 

c) Sleeping 

 

30. Why is physical fitness important? 

 

a) It helps us feel tired 

b) It keeps our muscles strong and our heart healthy 

c) It makes us grow taller 

 

31. Which activity is NOT part of gymnastics? 

 

a) Tumbling 

b) Running 

c) Balancing on a beam 

 

32. What is one of the benefits of exercise for our muscles? 

 

a) It makes them weak 

b) It helps them grow stronger 

c) It makes them tired 

 

33. Which of these is a gymnastics skill? 

 

a) Doing a somersault 

b) Jumping on a trampoline 

c) Swimming 

 

34. How does gymnastics help our body? 

 

a) It helps us move more freely and stay flexible 

b) It makes us sleepy 

c) It makes us taller 

 

35. Which type of food helps build strong bones? 

 

a) Candy 

b) Dairy products like milk and cheese 

c) Chips 

 

36. Which of the following is an example of physical fitness? 

 

a) Watching a movie 

b) Running in a race 

c) Sitting for a long time 

 

37. How does physical fitness help our heart? 

 

a) It makes it work harder and stronger 

b) It makes it slower 

c) It helps it rest 

 

38. What does gymnastics help improve? 

 

a) Our ability to talk 

b) Our flexibility, strength, and balance 

c) Our ability to sing 

 

39. What is a good way to stay active every day? 

 

a) Play outside or ride a bike 

b) Play video games for hours 

c) Stay in bed all day 

 

40. Which food helps give us energy for exercise? 

 

a) Vegetables 

b) Pizza 

c) Whole grains like rice and bread. 

FILL IN THE BLANKS  

1. Physical fitness helps to keep our __________ strong and healthy. 

2. Taking care of the __________ by reducing pollution helps everyone stay healthy. 

3. It\u2019s important to exercise every day, like __________, to keep our heart healthy. 

4. To stay fit, you should eat healthy foods like __________ and vegetables. 

5. When we use __________ and recycle, we help protect the environment. 

 

 

BASIC SCIENCE 

1. What are weeds? a) Helpful plants that we grow b) Unwanted plants that grow in gardens 

c) Plants we eat 

2. How do weeds affect your garden? a) They help other plants grow b) They take nutrients and water from other plants c) They make flowers bloom 

3. Which of these is a common weed? a) Rose b) Dandelion c) Tulip 

4. What can you do to get rid of weeds in your garden? a) Water them more b) Pull them out by hand 

c) Leave them alone 

5. Why is it important to remove weeds from your garden? a) To make the garden look better b) To stop them from stealing water and nutrients from other plants c) To make the plants grow taller 

6. Which of these tools can be used to remove weeds? a) Shovel  b) Scissors c) Rake 

7. What is the best time to remove weeds? a) In the morning when its cool b) At night c) When it rains 

8. How can weeds spread in a garden? a) Through their seeds blowing in the wind b) Through their flowers c) By growing flowers 

9. What happens if you leave weeds in your garden too long? a) They can start to grow flowers b) They can take over the garden and damage other plants c) They make the soil healthier 

10. What do you call a plant that is hard to get rid of because it grows back quickly? a) Vine b) Perennial weed c) Flower 

11. What is a shovel used for in a garden? a) Digging holes b) Watering plants c) Picking flowers 

12. Which tool is used to break up hard soil? a) Hoe b) Trowel c) Rake 

13. What is a rake used for? a) Digging holes b) Gathering leaves and grass c) Planting seeds 

14. Which gardening tool is used to plant small seeds? a) Spade b) Trowel c) Fork 

15. What is the purpose of a watering can? a) To cut the grass b) To water plants c) To dig holes 

16. Which tool helps you trim or prune small branches? a) Pruning shears b) Rake c) Shovel 

17. What is a wheelbarrow used for? a) Carrying plants b) Digging holes c) Transporting soil or tools 

18. What is the best tool to use when planting young plants in the garden? a) Trowel  b) Hoe c) Spade   19. Which tool can be used to move heavy piles of soil? a) Shovel b) Fork c) Wheelbarrow 

20. Which of these tools is used to aerate the soil? a) Rake b) Hoe c) Garden fork 

 

21. What is the main purpose of teeth? 

 

a) To help us talk 

b) To help us chew food 

c) To make our mouth look nice 

 

22. Which type of teeth are used for cutting food into small pieces? 

 

a) Molars 

b) Incisors 

c) Canines 

 

23. What do canines help us do? 

 

a) Grind food 

b) Tear food 

c) Cut food 

 

24. What is the job of molars in the mouth? 

 

a) To cut food 

b) To grind and crush food 

c) To tear food 

 

25. How many types of teeth are there in a human mouth? 

 

a) One type 

b) Three types 

c) Five types 

 

26. What do incisors look like? 

 

a) Pointed and sharp 

b) Flat and wide 

c) Short and flat 

 

27. What is the purpose of saliva in our mouth? 

 

a) To help us breathe 

b) To soften and moisten food for easier chewing 

c) To clean our teeth 

 

28. What do we call the process of breaking down food into smaller parts using teeth and saliva? 

 

a) Digestion 

b) Biting 

c) Chewing 

 

29. What is the first step in the human feeding system? 

 

a) Swallowing 

b) Chewing 

c) Eating food 

 

30. Where does digestion begin in the human body? 

 

a) In the stomach 

b) In the mouth 

c) In the intestines 

 

31. What is the role of the esophagus in digestion? 

 

a) It stores food 

b) It helps break down food 

c) It moves food from the mouth to the stomach 

 

32. What is the main purpose of the stomach in digestion? 

 

a) To absorb nutrients 

b) To chew food 

c) To break down food with acids and enzymes 

 

33. What does the small intestine do in the human feeding system? 

 

a) It absorbs nutrients from food 

b) It grinds food 

c) It holds food 

 

34. What is the function of water in our body? 

 

a) To provide energy 

b) To keep the body hydrated and help digestion 

c) To make us feel full 

 

35. Why is it important to drink enough water each day? 

 

a) To help us grow taller 

b) To keep our body hydrated and healthy 

c) To give us more energy 

 

36. What happens if you don't drink enough water? 

 

a) You may become dehydrated and feel tired 

b) You will become stronger 

c) Your teeth will grow faster 

 

37. Which of these foods is best for keeping your teeth healthy? 

 

a) Candy 

b) Fruits and vegetables 

c) Chips 

 

38. How do we keep our teeth clean? 

 

a) By brushing and flossing them regularly 

b) By eating a lot of candy 

c) By drinking soda 

 

39. How many teeth does an adult human typically have? 

 

a) 20 

b) 32 

c) 24 

 

40. Why is water called an essential nutrient for our body? 

 

a) Because it helps us see better 

b) Because it helps keep our body hydrated and aids in digestion 

c) Because it makes us feel sleepy 

FILL IN THE BLANKS  

1. A __________ is used to dig holes and move soil in the garden. 

2. To remove weeds from the ground, we can use a __________. 

3. A __________ is a tool used to water plants in the garden. 

4 We should brush our teeth at least __________ times a day. 

5.A __________ is a dentist tool used to clean and check your teeth. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPUTER SCIENCE 

 

1. What is software? a) A physical part of a computer b) A set of instructions that tells the computer what to do c) A type of computer hardware 

2. Which of these is an example of software? a) Keyboard b) Microsoft Word c) Mouse 

3. What does an operating system do? a) It stores files b) It helps the computer run programs c) It adds more RAM to the computer 

4. What is a game on a computer considered? a) Hardware b) Software c) A device 

5. Which of these is used to write documents on a computer? a) Internet browser b) Word processing software c) Mouse 

6. Which software helps you browse the internet? a) Word processor b) Web browser c) Music player 

7. Which of the following is an example of educational software? a) A video game b) A math learning app c) A printer 

8. What is an app? a) A type of hardware b) A software program you can download to your phone or computer c) A storage device 

9. Which software is used to make drawings on a computer? a) Paint b) Calculator c) Browser 

10. What do you need to open a file on a computer? a) A keyboard b) Software that can open the file c) A mouse 

11. What is hardware? a) The software that runs a computer b) The physical parts of a computer c) A website you visit 

12. Which of these is an example of computer hardware? a) Internet browser b) Mouse c) Word document 

13. What does a keyboard do? a) It displays pictures on the screen b) It allows you to type on the computer c) It stores files     

14. Which of these is an input device? a) Monitor b) Mouse c) Printer 

15. What is the main function of a computer monitor? a) To store data b) To display information c) To print documents 

16. What do you use to hear sounds from a computer? a) Keyboard b) Speaker c) Mouse 

17. Which of these is an example of storage hardware? a) Monitor b) Hard drive c) Keyboard 

18. What does the mouse do? a) It helps you hear sounds b) It helps you move the pointer on the screen c) It stores information 

19. What part of the computer is used to print documents? a) Speaker b) Printer c) Keyboard 

20. Which of these is an example of a portable storage device? a) USB flash drive b) Monitor c) Compuer 

 

21. What is the purpose of a computer cable? 

 

a) To play music 

b) To connect the computer to other devices 

c) To decorate the computer 

 

22. Which cable connects a computer to the internet? 

 

a) USB cable 

b) HDMI cable 

c) Ethernet cable 

 

23. What does a power cable do for a computer? 

 

a) It helps the computer connect to the internet 

b) It charges the computer's battery 

c) It provides power to turn on the computer 

 

24. Which cable is used to connect a computer to a monitor? 

 

a) USB cable 

b) VGA or HDMI cable 

c) Ethernet cable 

 

25. What is the purpose of a USB cable? 

 

a) To connect a printer to the computer 

b) To transfer data between the computer and other devices 

c) To connect the computer to the internet 

 

26. What do you need to do before using a computer for the first time? 

 

a) Set up the software and connect the cables 

b) Eat a snack 

c) Watch TV 

 

27. What is the first thing you need to connect when setting up a computer? 

 

a) The mouse 

b) The power cable 

c) The keyboard 

 

28. Which device do you connect to the computer to control the pointer on the screen? 

 

a) Keyboard 

b) Mouse 

c) Printer 

 

29. What is application software used for? 

 

a) To play games 

b) To perform specific tasks, like writing or drawing 

c) To connect to the internet 

 

30. Which of these is an example of application software? 

 

a) Microsoft Word 

b) Windows 

c) The computer\u2019s operating system 

 

31. What do you use word processing software for? 

 

a) Playing video games 

b) Writing documents 

c) Browsing the internet 

 

32. Which of these is an example of software used for making presentations? 

 

a) PowerPoint 

b) Google Chrome 

c) Windows Explorer 

 

33. What is one use of spreadsheet software? 

 

a) Writing letters 

b) Organizing data into rows and columns 

c) Drawing pictures 

 

34. What do you use photo editing software for? 

 

a) Drawing pictures 

b) Playing music 

c) Editing and adjusting photos 

 

35. What does internet browser software allow you to do? 

 

a) Listen to music 

b) Browse websites on the internet 

c) Play video games 

 

36. Which of the following is an example of software that helps you watch videos? 

 

a) Media player software 

b) Word processor 

c) Spreadsheet software 

 

37. What is the main use of email software? 

 

a) To send and receive messages online 

b) To play games 

c) To write documents 

 

38. Why is antivirus software important for a computer? 

 

a) To organize files 

b) To protect the computer from harmful programs 

c) To help play games 

 

39. Which software is used for drawing pictures on the computer? 

 

a) Microsoft Excel 

b) Paint or drawing software 

c) Web browser 

 

40. Which of these is used to print a document from a computer? 

 

a) A monitor 

b) A printer 

c) A mouse 

FILL IN THE BLANKS  

1.The first thing you need to do when setting up a computer is to _______ the computer to a power source.  

2. To turn on the computer, press the _______ button on the computer or monitor.  

3. : After turning on the computer, you should wait for the _______ screen to appear. 

4.The _______ is the device used to move the pointer on the screen. 

 5. To start using the computer, you need to enter your _______ and _______ on the login screen.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRE VOCATIONAL STUDIES 

 

1. Why do we preserve farm produce? a) To make it last longer b) To make it look prettier c) To make it grow faster 

2. Which of these methods helps preserve fruits and vegetables? a) Freezing b) Throwing them away c) Leaving them in the sun 

3. What is one way to preserve vegetables? a) Painting them b) Canning them , c) Leaving them outside 

4. What is drying used for in food preservation? a) Making food wet b) Removing moisture to prevent spoilage c) Making food bigger 

5. Which of these helps preserve food by keeping it cold? a) Freezing b) Exposing it to sunlight c) Storing it in a hot place 

6. What does canning do to preserve food? a) It adds extra sugar b) It seals the food in a can to keep it fresh c) It makes food look different 

7. What should you do to store fruit in the fridge for longer freshness? a) Wash it with water and put it in a basket b) Put it in a sealed container c) Leave it out in the open 

8. What is one common way to preserve meat? a) Freezing b) Growing more animals c) Leaving it on the table 

9. Which of these is a way to preserve food using vinegar? a) Freezing it b) Pickling it c) Boiling it 

10. Why is it important to preserve food? a) To help it taste better right away b) To make sure it doesn't spoil and can be eaten later c) To make it look colorful 

11. What should you wear when using chemicals in the garden? a) T-shirt and shorts b) Gloves and protective clothing c) Sunglasses and a hat 

12. Why is it important to read the label on chemical products? a) To find out when they were made b) To know how to use the chemicals safely c) To know their color 

13. How should you apply chemicals to crops? a) Pour them all over the garden b) Follow the instructions carefully and use the right amount c) Spray the chemicals on yourself 

14. What should you do if a chemical spills on your skin? a) Wash it off with water immediately b) Ignore it c) Wipe it with a dry cloth 

15. What is the best way to store chemicals? a) Leave them outside b) Store them in a cool, dry place away from children and pets c) Put them in the kitchen 

16. Why is it important to keep chemicals away from food? a) They can make the food taste better b) They can make the food unsafe to eat c) They can make the food bigger 

17. What should you do after spraying chemicals on crops? a) Leave the area immediately and wash your hands b) Sit down and relax c) Eat something 

18. How can you prevent chemicals from spreading to other areas of your garden? a) Spray them directly on the plants b) Only spray on a calm, wind-free day c) Spray more than necessary 

19. Why should you wear a mask when applying chemicals? a) To look like a superhero b) To avoid breathing in harmful fumes or particles c) To keep cool 

20. What is the first thing to do if you accidentally drink a chemical? a) Call for help immediately   b) Drink more water  c) Keep playing. 

21. What is compost manure used for? 

 

a) To make food 

b) To fertilize plants and improve soil 

c) To make flowers bloom 

 

22. Which of these is a good material for making compost? 

 

a) Plastic bottles 

b) Kitchen scraps like vegetable peels 

c) Metal cans 

 

23. What is the main purpose of composting? 

 

a) To create food for people 

b) To recycle organic waste into rich soil 

c) To make plastic items 

 

24. What do we call the materials that are used to make compost? 

 

a) Artificial materials 

b) Organic materials 

c) Chemical fertilizers 

 

25. Which of these should NOT be used in composting? 

 

a) Fruit and vegetable scraps 

b) Grass clippings 

c) Plastic bags 

 

26. What is an example of a "green" material for compost? 

 

a) Dry leaves 

b) Coffee grounds 

c) Wood chips 

 

27. What is an example of a "brown" material for compost? 

 

a) Vegetable scraps 

b) Grass clippings 

c) Dry leaves or straw 

 

28. What happens to compost over time? 

 

a) It turns into a liquid 

b) It breaks down into rich soil 

c) It turns into plastic 

 

29. How does compost help plants grow? 

 

a) By making plants smaller 

b) By adding nutrients to the soil 

c) By changing the color of flowers 

 

30. What should you do to keep your compost healthy? 

 

a) Add water and turn it regularly 

b) Leave it in the sun all day 

c) Add only plastic items 

 

31. What is an ornamental plant? 

 

a) A plant that is grown for its beauty 

b) A plant that is used for food 

c) A plant that grows in water 

 

32. Which of the following is an example of an ornamental plant? 

 

a) Tomato plant 

b) Rose 

c) Carrot 

 

33. Why do people grow ornamental plants? 

 

a) To decorate their homes and gardens 

b) To eat the fruit 

c) To make furniture 

 

34. What is the first step in growing ornamental plants? 

 

a) Watering the plant every day 

b) Planting seeds or seedlings in the soil 

c) Harvesting the flowers 

 

35. What is needed for ornamental plants to grow well? 

 

a) Sunlight, water, and good soil 

b) Only sunlight 

c) Only water 

 

36. When should ornamental plants be watered? 

 

a) Only in the evening 

b) When the soil is dry 

c) When they are fully grown 

 

37. How do you help ornamental plants bloom better? 

 

a) Give them more sunlight and nutrients 

b) Ignore them for a few months 

c) Water them only once a month 

 

38. Which of these is NOT a common ornamental plant? 

 

a) Sunflower 

b) Lavender 

c) Cabbage 

 

39. What is one way to care for ornamental plants during winter? 

 

a) Leave them outside in the cold 

b) Bring them indoors or protect them from frost 

c) Water them less often 

 

40. What happens when you add compost to ornamental plants? 

 

a) It makes the plants sick 

b) It helps the plants grow healthier and stronger 

c) It makes the plants die 

FILL IN THE BLANKS  

1.  One way to preserve food is by putting it in a freezer, which is called __________. 

2. __________ is a method of preservation where food is kept in salt or sugar to stop bacteria from growing. 

3.  Drying food helps preserve it by removing the __________, which bacteria need to grow. 

4.  __________ is a method of preservation where food is kept in a very cold environment to slow down spoilage. 

5. One way to preserve food is by adding vinegar to it, which is called __________. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NATIONAL VALUE 

 

1. What is a citizen? a) Someone who lives in another country b) Someone who is part of a community or country c) Someone who has a pet 

2. How can someone become a citizen of a country? a) By being born in that country or through legal processes b) By visiting the country c) By wearing a countrys flag 

3. Which of the following is a responsibility of a good citizen? a) Paying taxes b) Ignoring rules c) Disrespecting others 

4. What does it mean to be a responsible citizen? a) Following the rules and helping the community b) Playing all day long c) Avoiding school 

5. Why is it important to respect the laws of a country? a) To help the country stay safe and organized b) To make life more difficult c) To avoid getting beating 

6. Which of these is a right of a citizen? a) The right to vote b) The right to take other peoples property c) The right to skip school whenever you want 

7. What is the right to vote? a) The right to choose leaders in the country b) The right to take a day off work c) The right to travel without any rules 

8. Which of these is a right that children have? a) The right to work full-time jobs b) The right to go to school and get an education c) The right to make their own rules at school 

9. What is the right to freedom of speech? a) The right to say whatever you want, anytime b) The right to express your thoughts and opinions freely c) The right to shout at others 

10. Why do citizens have the right to own property? a) To be able to travel b) To have their own house or land c) To be able to throw away. 

11. What is a local government? a) A government in a foreign country b) The people who make decisions for a town or city c) The leaders of a school 

12. What is one responsibility of the local government? a) Deciding what people wear b) Making sure there are roads and schools in the community c) Deciding the weather 

13. Who is usually in charge of the local government? a) The president b) The mayor or council members c) Teachers 

14. What do local governments do to keep the community clean? a) They collect trash and recycle b) They teach people to ignore cleanliness c) They make more trash 

15. What is a town meeting? a) A time when people talk about the weather b) A gathering where citizens discuss local issues and make decisions c) A place to eat food together 

16. Why is it important to have local governments? a) They help solve problems in the community and make it better b) They play games with people c) They control everyones life 

17. Who can help make decisions in a local government? a) Only children b) Only people with lots of money c) Citizens who vote and elected leaders 

18. What do local governments use taxes for? a) To buy candy for everyone b) To build roads, schools, and parks c) To create new laws that don't help people 

19. Which of these might a local government do to help the community? a) Fix broken roads b) Ignore problems in the town c) Tell people not to work 

20. How can you participate in your local government? a) By voting when you are old enough and sharing your ideas b) By staying home and doing nothing c) By ignoring rules 

21. What is the main purpose of a government? 

a) To make laws and keep order 

b) To build roads 

c) To entertain people 

22. What is the government responsible for? 

a) Making and enforcing laws 

b) Cooking food for people 

c) Watching TV 

23. Who leads the executive branch of the Nigerian government? 

a) The President 

b) The Speaker of the House 

c) The Chief Justice 

 

24. What is the role of the legislative branch? 

 

a) To carry out laws 

b) To make laws 

c) To interpret laws 

 

25. Which of these is part of the legislative branch of government? 

 

a) The President 

b) The Senate and the House of Representatives 

c) The Supreme Court 

 

26. What does the judicial branch do? 

 

a) Enforces laws 

b) Makes laws 

c) Interprets laws and makes sure they are fair 

 

27. Who interprets the laws in the judicial branch? 

 

a) The President 

b) The Judges 

c) The Governors 

 

28. Which of these is a duty of the state government? 

 

a) Running national elections 

b) Making laws about local schools 

c) Printing money 

 

29. Who is in charge of the state government? 

 

a) The President 

b) The Governor 

c) The Speaker of the House 

 

30. What is one thing that the state government does? 

 

a) Builds the White House 

b) Creates rules for schools and public safety 

c) Controls the army 

 

31. What do we call the system where power is shared between the state and national governments? 

 

a) Democracy 

b) Federalism 

c) Monarchy 

 

32. Which branch of government helps make laws? 

 

a) Judicial 

b) Legislative 

c) Executive 

 

33. Which branch of government enforces the laws? 

 

a) Executive 

b) Legislative 

c) Judicial 

 

34. Who is part of the state government? 

 

a) The President 

b) The Governor and state legislators 

c) The Supreme Court 

 

35. What is a responsibility of the local government? 

 

a) Making national laws 

b) Managing police and fire departments 

c) Running the military 

 

36. What is a major duty of the state government? 

 

a) Making laws about schools and public health 

b) Deciding what movies to watch 

c) Deciding the price of food 

 

37. Who helps the President enforce laws? 

 

a) The Governor 

b) The President\u2019s helpers 

c) The police and military 

 

38. Which branch of government does the President belong to? 

 

a) Judicial 

b) Legislative 

c) Executive 

 

39. What is one duty of the judicial branch? 

 

a) To make laws 

b) To interpret the laws 

c) To help build roads 

 

40. What is an example of a state government job? 

 

a) Deciding national tax rates 

b) Running state parks 

c) Deciding foreign policy 

FILL IN THE BLANKS 

 

1. A person who is a member of a country and has the right to live there is called a _______. 

2. One of the most important rights of a citizen is the right to _______ in elections. 

3. Citizens have the right to _______ for jobs and work in their country. 

4. A citizen has the responsibility to _______ the laws of their country. 

5. A citizen has the right to _______ an education and attend school. 

 

 

 

 

 

ENGLISH STUDIES 

 

Grammar 

1. Which sentence is correct? a) She are going to the store. b) She is going to the store. c) She going to the store. 

2. Which word is a noun? a) Run b) Happy c) Dog 

3. Choose the correct verb: He ____ to school every day. a) Goes b) Going c) Went 

4. Which of the following sentences is in past tense? a) I am playing with my friend. b) I played with my friend. c) I will play with my friend. 

5. Which of these is a complete sentence? a) Because she was tired. b) She went home because she was tired. c) Went home she was tired. 

 

Reading 

6. What is the main idea of a story? a) The characters names b) What the story is mostly about c) The places in the story 

7. If you are reading a story about a boy who loves to play soccer, what is the likely theme? a) Cooking b) Sports and teamwork c) Going to the zoo 

8. What does "plot" mean in a story? a) The name of the characters b) The sequence of events in the story c) The lesson learned in the story 

9. What is a good strategy for understanding a difficult text? a) Skip all the words you dont know b) Read the text slowly and look up unfamiliar words c) Close the book when it gets hard 

10. Which of these would be a good title for a story about a dog and its adventures? a) The Dog Who Traveled the World b) The History of Dogs c) How to Build a House 

 

Vocabulary 

11. What does the word "gigantic" mean? a) Very small b) Very large c) Very soft 

12. Which word is a synonym for "happy"? a) Sad b) Excited c) Angry 

13. Which word is an antonym for "slow"? a) Fast b) Quiet c) Tall 

14. If you describe something as "smooth," it means it is: a) Rough and bumpy b) Soft and soft to touch c) Even and flat 

15. Which of these words means to look carefully? a) Stare b) Glance c) Blink 

 

Listening 

 

16. If someone says, Listen carefully, what should you do? a) Ignore them b) Pay attention and focus on what they are saying c) Start talking loudly 

17. What should you do when listening to a story? a) Look around the room b) Focus on the speaker and understand the story c) Start writing your own 

18. If you dont understand what someone says, what should you do? a) Ignore them b) Ask them to repeat or explain c) Walk away 

Speaking 

19. Which sentence is a question? a) He is going to the park. b) Are you coming to the park? c) They play outside every day. 

20. When speaking clearly, what should you do? a) Talk quickly and mumble 

b) Speak slowly and make sure your words are clear 

c) Whisper. 

 

21. Which one is a verb? a) House 

b) Run 

c) Apple 

 

 

 

22. Choose the correct verb for this sentence: "She _______ to school every day." a) Go 

b) Going 

c) Goes 

 

 

 

23. What is the past tense of "eat"? a) Eating 

b) Eats 

c) Ate 

 

 

 

24. Which word is a verb in this sentence: "The dog barks loudly." a) Dog 

b) Loudly 

c) Barks 

 

 

 

25. Fill in the blank: "I _______ my homework yesterday." a) Do 

b) Doing 

c) Did 

 

 

 

26. Choose the verb in the sentence: "Tommy plays football on weekends." a) Tommy 

b) Plays 

c) Weekend 

 

 

27. Which sentence uses a verb correctly? a) She play the piano. 

b) She playing the piano. 

c) She plays the piano. 

 

 

 

28. Which verb completes the sentence? "We _______ to the park now." a) Going 

b) Goes 

c) Are going 

 

 

 

29. Which of these is an action verb? a) Blue 

b) Jump 

c) Apple 

 

 

 

30. Which word is a verb in the sentence: "He talks to his friend every day." a) Talks 

b) He 

c) Friend 

 

 

 

 

 

 

31. (Teacher says: "The cat jumps over the fence.") What did the cat do? a) Runs 

b) Jumps 

c) Sits 

 

 

 

32. (Teacher says: "I will help you with your homework.") What will the teacher do? a) Teach 

b) Help 

c) Talk 

 

 

 

33. (Teacher says: "The dog is barking loudly.") What is the dog doing? a) Sleeping 

b) Barking 

c) Running 

 

 

34. (Teacher says: "We are eating lunch right now.") What are they doing? a) Playing 

b) Eating 

c) Singing 

 

 

 

35. (Teacher says: "She is reading a book.") What is she doing? a) Running 

b) Reading 

c) Sleeping 

 

 

36. Choose the correct verb: "They _______ to the movie theater." a) Go 

b) Goes 

c) Going 

 

 

 

37. What word completes the sentence? "I _______ my bicycle to school." a) Ride 

b) Rides 

c) Riding 

 

 

 

38. Choose the correct verb form: "He _______ his homework every day." a) Do 

b) Does 

c) Did 

 

 

39. Which sentence is correct? a) They is playing soccer. 

b) They are play soccer. 

c) They are playing soccer 

 

 

40. What is the correct verb for this sentence? "We _______ to the beach last weekend." a) Went 

b) Going 

c) Goes 

 

FILL IN THE BLANKS  

1. I have three _______ (apple/apples) in my basket. 

2. She bought some _______ (rice/rices) for dinner. 

3. There are five _______ (dog/dogs) in the park. 

4. Can I have a little _______ (water/waters) to drink? 

5. We need a few _______ (book/books) for the classroom. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HISTORY 

 

1. Who was King Jaja of Opobo? a) A famous writer b) A great leader and warrior of Opobo c) A famous singer 

2. Where was King Jaja of Opobo from? a) Lagos b) Opobo c) Zaria 

3. What was King Jaja of Opobo known for? a) Trading and making Opobo a rich city b) Writing books c) Becoming a teacher 

4. What was Oba Ovonranwen known for? a) His role in defending Benin against invaders b) Being a famous athlete c) Writing songs 

5. Where did Oba Ovonranwen rule? a) Opobo b) Benin c) Zaria 

6. Why was Oba Ovonranwen important to the Benin Kingdom? a) He helped build bridges b) He fought to protect his kingdom during the British invasion c) He taught people how to farm 

7. Who was Chief Nana of Itsekiri? a) A famous scientist b) A wealthy and powerful leader of the Itsekiri people c) A popular singer 

8. Where did Chief Nana of Itsekiri rule? a) Opobo b) Itsekiri c) Zaria 

9. What was Chief Nana of Itsekiri known for? a) His bravery in the fight against British forces  b) His art skills c) His ability to sing 

10. Who was Queen Aminat of Zaria? a) A famous leader who ruled the Kingdom of Zaria b) A famous teacher c) A well-known musician 

11. What is Queen Aminat of Zaria famous for? a) Being a warrior who expanded the Kingdom of Zaria b) Building schools c) Writing books 

12. Where did Queen Aminat of Zaria rule? a) Opobo b) Zaria c) Benin 

13. What did Queen Aminat of Zaria do during her reign? a) She fought battles to protect her kingdom b) She built bridges c) She traveled around the world 

14. Which hero helped in the defense of the Benin Kingdom against the British? a) King Jaja b) Chief Nana c) Oba Ovonranwen 

15. What was one of the challenges King Jaja of Opobo faced? a) Fighting invaders b) Being exiled by the British c) Building a new city 

16. What did Chief Nana of Itsekiri do after fighting the British? a) He became a teacher b) He moved to another country c) He went into exile 

17. Which of these heroes or heroines fought to protect their land from foreign invasion? a) Queen Aminat b) Chief Nana c) All of the above 

18. How did Queen Aminat of Zaria help her people? a) By leading successful military campaigns 

b) By creating art c) By planting trees 

19. What did King Jaja of Opobo help his people with? a) Developing the trade business b) Building schools c) Writing history books 

20. Which of the following heroes was a leader of the Itsekiri people? a) Chief Nana b) Queen Aminat c) Oba Ovonrowen 

21. Where do the Nupe people mostly live? 

 

a) In the southeastern part of Nigeria 

b) In the central part of Nigeria 

c) In the northern part of Nigeria 

 

22. What language do the Nupe people speak? 

 

a) Hausa 

b) Nupe 

c) Yoruba 

 

23. The Nupe people are known for which traditional activity? 

 

a) Weaving and making pottery 

b) Farming and fishing 

c) Writing books 

 

24. What is the capital of the Nupe people\u2019s region? 

 

a) Lokoja 

b) Minna 

c) Kaduna 

 

25. Which of these is a common food among the Nupe people? 

 

a) Pounded yam and soup 

b) Fufu and egusi 

c) Tuwo and vegetable soup 

 

26. Where do the Jukun people live? 

 

a) In the southern part of Nigeria 

b) In the northeastern part of Nigeria 

c) In the central and northeastern parts of Nigeria 

 

27. What language do the Jukun people speak? 

 

a) Jukun 

b) Kanuri 

c) Igbo 

 

28. Which of these is a traditional Jukun dance? 

 

a) Argungu 

b) Waza 

c) Jukun traditional dance 

 

29. What is the Jukun people\u2019s main occupation? 

 

a) Fishing and farming 

b) Hunting and gathering 

c) Trading and weaving 

30. Which state is home to many Jukun people? 

 

a) Kogi State 

b) Taraba State 

c) Ogun State 

 

31. What is the traditional attire of the Gbagyi people? 

 

a) Brightly colored robes 

b) Simple, local fabric wraps 

c) Animal skins 

 

32. The Gbagyi people are known for living in which region of Nigeria? 

 

a) The southwestern region 

b) The central region 

c) The southeastern region 

 

33. What language do the Gbagyi people speak? 

 

a) Gbagyi 

b) Yoruba 

c) Ibo 

 

34. What is the main food of the Gbagyi people? 

 

a) Rice and beans 

b) Yam and cassava 

c) Noodles and soup 

 

35. What is a traditional Gbagyi festival? 

 

a) Durbar Festival 

b) Ngu Festival 

c) Argungu Festival 

 

36. The Gbagyi people are also known for what? 

 

a) Excellent farming skills 

b) Pottery making 

c) Weaving traditional clothes 

 

37. Which of these is a major source of income for the Nupe people? 

 

a) Fishing 

b) Hunting 

c) Trading and farming 

 

38. What kind of houses do the Jukun people live in? 

 

a) Mud huts and houses with thatched roofs 

b) Tall skyscrapers 

c) Wooden houses with roofs made of metal 

 

39. Which of the following is a well-known festival of the Gbagyi people? 

 

a) Sallah 

b) Ngu Festival 

c) Owu Festival 

 

40. What is a traditional item that the Nupe people are known for making? 

 

a) Wooden masks 

b) Pottery and woven baskets 

c) Metal swords 

FILL IN THE BLANKS  

1. King Jaja of Opobo was originally born with the name ________. 

2.King Jaja of Opobo was known for his strong leadership in the ________ trade. 

3. King Jaja founded the town of ________ in the Niger Delta region. 

4. Queen Amina was a famous warrior queen from the ancient kingdom of ________. 

5. Queen Amina is famous for building strong ________ to protect her kingdom. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CHRISTIAN RELIGIOUS STUDIES 

1. Who are we in God's eyes? a) Strangers 

b) Children of God 

c) Enemies of God 

 

 

2. What does it mean to be a child of God? a) To be loved and cared for by God 

b) To be afraid of God 

c) To ignore God 

 

 

3. How does God treat His children? a) With love and kindness 

b) With anger 

c) With punishment 

 

 

4. How can we show that we are children of God? a) By being kind and loving to others 

b) By ignoring others 

c) By being mean 

 

 

5. What does God want from His children? a) To love Him and love others 

b) To be angry at others 

c) To stay silent 

 

6. Who made us God's children? a) Our parents 

b) Jesus 

c) Our teachers 

 

7. Why should we love one another as children of God? a) Because it makes God happy 

b) Because it's fun 

c) Because we have to 

 

8. What is one way we can honor God as His children? a) By helping those in need 

b) By always being angry 

c) By ignoring people 

 

9. Who does God love? a) Only adults 

b) Only people who follow the rules 

c) Everyone, including children 

10. What does being a child of God mean about our relationship with others? a) We should be selfish 

b) We should love and respect others 

c) We should avoid others 

 

11. Why is it important to live in peace with others? a) Because it makes everyone happy 

b) Because God wants us to live in peace 

c) Because it\u2019s easier to fight 

 

 

12. What can happen if we don\u2019t live in peace with others? a) People will be happy 

b) It can cause sadness and fighting 

c) We can make more friends 

 

 

13. How can we live in peace with others? a) By being kind and respectful 

b) By yelling at them 

c) By ignoring them 

 

 

14. What does God want us to do when we are angry with someone? a) Fight with them 

b) Hold a grudge 

c) Forgive and make peace 

 

 

15. What does living in peace show others about God? a) That we do not care about them 

b) That we are children of God 

c) That we are mean 

 

 

16. What should we do if someone hurts us? a) Get back at them 

b) Forgive them and be kind 

c) Ignore them forever 

 

 

17. How can peace help our communities? a) It brings everyone together 

b) It causes more problems 

c) It makes people unhappy 

 

 

18. Why does God want us to live in peace? a) To make life harder 

b) So we can enjoy love and happiness 

c) To see us argue 

 

 

19. Which of these is a way to make peace with others? a) Shouting louder 

b) Talking calmly and solving problems 

c) Staying quiet forever 

 

 

20. What does the Bible say about peacemakers? a) They are blessed by God 

b) They should stay quiet 

c) They should always argue 

 

 

 

God Calls Us for a Purpose 

 

21. Why did God create us? a) To live for ourselves 

b) To love Him and serve others 

c) To stay quiet and not do anything 

 

 

22. What is our purpose as children of God? a) To be kind and share love 

b) To be rich and famous 

c) To ignore others 

 

 

23. How do we discover the purpose God has for us? a) By praying and listening to God 

b) By only thinking about ourselves 

c) By ignoring others' needs 

 

 

24. Does God have a special plan for each of us? a) Yes, He has a purpose for each person 

b) No, He does not care 

c) Only for some people 

 

 

25. What should we do when we discover God\u2019s purpose for us? a) Ignore it 

b) Follow it and help others 

c) Keep it a secret 

 

 

26. How can we live out God\u2019s purpose for us? a) By being selfish 

b) By following His guidance and helping others 

c) By not doing anything 

 

 

27. What does God want us to do with our talents and gifts? a) Use them to help others 

b) Hide them from others 

c) Use them only for ourselves 

 

 

28. What does the Bible say about using our gifts? a) We should hide them 

b) We should use them to help others 

c) We should keep them to ourselves 

 

 

29. How can we find joy in following God\u2019s plan for our life? a) By helping others and living in peace 

b) By ignoring others' needs 

c) By focusing on what we want 

 

 

30. What happens when we follow God\u2019s purpose for us? a) We make God happy and find fulfillment 

b) We make others angry 

c) We feel lonely 

 

 

 

The Story of Abraham 

 

31. Who was Abraham in the Bible? a) A great king 

b) The father of many nations 

c) A strong warrior 

 

 

32. What did God promise Abraham? a) To make him the richest person 

b) To give him many children and land 

c) To give him a pet 

 

 

33. How did Abraham show faith in God? a) By listening to God and obeying His commands 

b) By arguing with God 

c) By ignoring God\u2019s instructions 

 

 

34. What did God ask Abraham to do with his son Isaac? a) To build a house for him 

b) To sacrifice him 

c) To send him to school 

 

 

35. What happened when Abraham obeyed God\u2019s command? a) Isaac was saved by an angel 

b) Isaac was taken away forever 

c) Abraham was punished 

 

 

36. Why is Abraham called the "father of faith"? a) Because he trusted and obeyed God 

b) Because he was very strong 

c) Because he had many children 

 

 

37. What is the promise that God made to Abraham? a) That he would be wealthy 

b) That his descendants would be as many as the stars 

c) That he would never be sad 

 

 

38. How did Abraham respond to God\u2019s call? a) He was afraid and ran away 

b) He trusted and obeyed God 

c) He ignored God 

 

 

39. Who were Abraham\u2019s children? a) Isaac and Jacob 

b) Moses and Aaron 

c) David and Solomon 

 

 

40. What does Abraham\u2019s story teach us about following God? a) To trust God and obey His plans 

b) To only think about ourselves 

c) To never listen to others 

FILL IN THE BLANKS  

1. Abraham was originally from the city of ________. 

2. God promised Abraham that he would become the father of many ________. 

3. Abraham\u2019s wife was named ________. 

4. God tested Abraham by asking him to sacrifice his son ________. 

5. Abraham is known as the father of the ________ faith. 