1. What should you do to stop the spread of germs? a) Wash your hands b) Eat candy c) Stay outside
2. What does a healthy community need? a) Healthy people b) A lot of candy c) Trash everywhere
3. Which of these is important for staying healthy? a) Drinking lots of soda b) Eating fruits and vegetables c) Sleeping all day
4. What is the best way to stop the spread of illness in a community? a) Sharing food with everyone b) Washing hands regularly c) Not drinking water
5. What should you do if you feel sick? a) Go to school and play b) Stay home and rest c) Go to a friend's house
6. Why is it important to get vaccinations? a) To protect yourself from diseases b) To grow taller c) To make your clothes look good
7. What can you do to help your community stay clean? a) Litter in the streets b) Pick up trash c) Ignore the trash
8. What is the main reason for keeping your environment clean? a) To make the place look nice b) To prevent diseases c) To annoy people
9. Why should we avoid smoking in our community? a) It smells bad b) It can harm people's health
c) It makes us look cool
10. What is a good way to stay healthy in your community? a) Exercise and play outside b) Stay inside all day c) Eat fast food all the time
11. What should you do to help reduce pollution? a) Recycle bottles and cans b) Burn plastic c) Leave trash on the ground
12. Why is it important to plant trees? a) To make oxygen and clean the air b) To have more places to sit
c) To make the grass grow
13. What should you do with plastic bottles after you use them? a) Throw them in the trash b) Recycle them c) Leave them outside
14. What does pollution do to the environment? a) Makes the air and water dirty b) Makes flowers bloom c) Helps animals grow
15. Which of these helps keep our environment clean? a) Turning off lights when you leave a room b) Using more plastic bags c) Throwing trash in rivers
16. What can you do to save water? a) Leave the water running while brushing your teeth b) Take long showers c) Turn off the water when brushing your teeth
17. Why should we avoid using too many plastic bags? a) They can harm animals and the environment b) They are expensive c) They help plants grow
18. What is an example of recycling? a) Using a paper bag instead of a plastic one b) Throwing bottles in the trash c) Burning cardboard
19. What can you do to reduce air pollution? a) Walk or ride a bike instead of driving a car b) Leave the car running all day c) Use more air conditioners
20. What is one way to take care of the earth? a) Plant more trees b) Cut down all the trees c) Leave trash everywhere
21. Why is food important for our body?

a) It helps us grow and gives us energy
b) It makes us taller
c) It helps us sleep better

22. What does a healthy diet help our body do?

a) Run faster
b) Stay strong and healthy
c) Grow taller

23. Which of the following is a healthy food choice?

a) Candy
b) Fruits and vegetables
c) Chips

24. What do carbohydrates in food do for our body?

a) Help us sleep
b) Provide energy
c) Help us see better

25. Which of the following is a good source of protein?

a) Apples
b) Chicken
c) Chocolate

26. Why should we drink water every day?

a) To keep our body hydrated and healthy
b) To feel tired
c) To taste something sweet

27. What is one of the benefits of eating fruits and vegetables?

a) They are high in sugar
b) They help keep our skin healthy
c) They make us feel sleepy

28. Which food is a good source of vitamins?

a) Candy
b) Fruits and vegetables
c) Ice cream

29. What is an example of a physical activity that helps us stay fit?

a) Watching TV
b) Playing sports or running
c) Sleeping

30. Why is physical fitness important?

a) It helps us feel tired
b) It keeps our muscles strong and our heart healthy
c) It makes us grow taller

31. Which activity is NOT part of gymnastics?

a) Tumbling
b) Running
c) Balancing on a beam

32. What is one of the benefits of exercise for our muscles?

a) It makes them weak
b) It helps them grow stronger
c) It makes them tired

33. Which of these is a gymnastics skill?

a) Doing a somersault
b) Jumping on a trampoline
c) Swimming

34. How does gymnastics help our body?

a) It helps us move more freely and stay flexible
b) It makes us sleepy
c) It makes us taller

35. Which type of food helps build strong bones?

a) Candy
b) Dairy products like milk and cheese
c) Chips

36. Which of the following is an example of physical fitness?

a) Watching a movie
b) Running in a race
c) Sitting for a long time

37. How does physical fitness help our heart?

a) It makes it work harder and stronger
b) It makes it slower
c) It helps it rest

38. What does gymnastics help improve?

a) Our ability to talk
b) Our flexibility, strength, and balance
c) Our ability to sing

39. What is a good way to stay active every day?

a) Play outside or ride a bike
b) Play video games for hours
c) Stay in bed all day

40. Which food helps give us energy for exercise?

a) Vegetables
b) Pizza
c) Whole grains like rice and bread.
FILL IN THE BLANKS 
1. Physical fitness helps to keep our __________ strong and healthy.
2. Taking care of the __________ by reducing pollution helps everyone stay healthy.
3. It’s important to exercise every day, like __________, to keep our heart healthy.
4. To stay fit, you should eat healthy foods like __________ and vegetables.
5. When we use __________ and recycle, we help protect the environment.