1. Who are we in God's eyes? a) Strangers
b) Children of God
c) Enemies of God


2. What does it mean to be a child of God? a) To be loved and cared for by God
b) To be afraid of God
c) To ignore God


3. How does God treat His children? a) With love and kindness
b) With anger
c) With punishment


4. How can we show that we are children of God? a) By being kind and loving to others
b) By ignoring others
c) By being mean


5. What does God want from His children? a) To love Him and love others
b) To be angry at others
c) To stay silent

6. Who made us God's children? a) Our parents
b) Jesus
c) Our teachers

7. Why should we love one another as children of God? a) Because it makes God happy
b) Because it's fun
c) Because we have to

8. What is one way we can honor God as His children? a) By helping those in need
b) By always being angry
c) By ignoring people

9. Who does God love? a) Only adults
b) Only people who follow the rules
c) Everyone, including children
10. What does being a child of God mean about our relationship with others? a) We should be selfish
b) We should love and respect others
c) We should avoid others

11. Why is it important to live in peace with others? a) Because it makes everyone happy
b) Because God wants us to live in peace
c) Because it’s easier to fight


12. What can happen if we don’t live in peace with others? a) People will be happy
b) It can cause sadness and fighting
c) We can make more friends


13. How can we live in peace with others? a) By being kind and respectful
b) By yelling at them
c) By ignoring them


14. What does God want us to do when we are angry with someone? a) Fight with them
b) Hold a grudge
c) Forgive and make peace


15. What does living in peace show others about God? a) That we do not care about them
b) That we are children of God
c) That we are mean


16. What should we do if someone hurts us? a) Get back at them
b) Forgive them and be kind
c) Ignore them forever


17. How can peace help our communities? a) It brings everyone together
b) It causes more problems
c) It makes people unhappy


18. Why does God want us to live in peace? a) To make life harder
b) So we can enjoy love and happiness
c) To see us argue


19. Which of these is a way to make peace with others? a) Shouting louder
b) Talking calmly and solving problems
c) Staying quiet forever


20. What does the Bible say about peacemakers? a) They are blessed by God
b) They should stay quiet
c) They should always argue



God Calls Us for a Purpose

21. Why did God create us? a) To live for ourselves
b) To love Him and serve others
c) To stay quiet and not do anything


22. What is our purpose as children of God? a) To be kind and share love
b) To be rich and famous
c) To ignore others


23. How do we discover the purpose God has for us? a) By praying and listening to God
b) By only thinking about ourselves
c) By ignoring others' needs


24. Does God have a special plan for each of us? a) Yes, He has a purpose for each person
b) No, He does not care
c) Only for some people


25. What should we do when we discover God’s purpose for us? a) Ignore it
b) Follow it and help others
c) Keep it a secret


26. How can we live out God’s purpose for us? a) By being selfish
b) By following His guidance and helping others
c) By not doing anything


27. What does God want us to do with our talents and gifts? a) Use them to help others
b) Hide them from others
c) Use them only for ourselves


28. What does the Bible say about using our gifts? a) We should hide them
b) We should use them to help others
c) We should keep them to ourselves


29. How can we find joy in following God’s plan for our life? a) By helping others and living in peace
b) By ignoring others' needs
c) By focusing on what we want


30. What happens when we follow God’s purpose for us? a) We make God happy and find fulfillment
b) We make others angry
c) We feel lonely



The Story of Abraham

31. Who was Abraham in the Bible? a) A great king
b) The father of many nations
c) A strong warrior


32. What did God promise Abraham? a) To make him the richest person
b) To give him many children and land
c) To give him a pet


33. How did Abraham show faith in God? a) By listening to God and obeying His commands
b) By arguing with God
c) By ignoring God’s instructions


34. What did God ask Abraham to do with his son Isaac? a) To build a house for him
b) To sacrifice him
c) To send him to school


35. What happened when Abraham obeyed God’s command? a) Isaac was saved by an angel
b) Isaac was taken away forever
c) Abraham was punished


36. Why is Abraham called the "father of faith"? a) Because he trusted and obeyed God
b) Because he was very strong
c) Because he had many children


37. What is the promise that God made to Abraham? a) That he would be wealthy
b) That his descendants would be as many as the stars
c) That he would never be sad


38. How did Abraham respond to God’s call? a) He was afraid and ran away
b) He trusted and obeyed God
c) He ignored God


39. Who were Abraham’s children? a) Isaac and Jacob
b) Moses and Aaron
c) David and Solomon


40. What does Abraham’s story teach us about following God? a) To trust God and obey His plans
b) To only think about ourselves
c) To never listen to others
FILL IN THE BLANKS 
1. Abraham was originally from the city of ________.
2. God promised Abraham that he would become the father of many ________.
3. Abraham’s wife was named ________.
4. God tested Abraham by asking him to sacrifice his son ________.
5. Abraham is known as the father of the ________ faith.